---
title: Unit Testing
link: tests
file: 2016-01-03-tests.md
categories:
- tutorial-docs
---

Unit tests are used to determine:

* if a task passes or fails
* feedback a user gets when a test fails

Tests are loaded in their order from the tutorial markdown files, and concat together into one temporary file. This means that any import or require statements placed at the top of the first file will be shared by all tests for that page.

Tests should indicate which task they are, in order to quickly determine which task index has failed. For the *mocha-coderoad* test runner, this is as easy as adding the task number to describe block.

```js
describe('01 first task');
describe('04 fourth task');
```

### Test Statements

It makes sense to write test statements using 'should', 'must' or negative statements. Remember, the failing test message will be delivered as feedback to the user.

```js
it('should be a function')
it('must be a function')
it('isn\'t a function')
```

### Loaders

Use a **loader** to run the user saved file in the context of your file. Think of a loader as a way to place the file your testing inside of your test file. Loaders are written as comments.

```js
// load('user-file.js')
```

*Note: When using spies, stubs or mocks, initiate them above your loader call.*



### Loading Data Files

Data can be loaded in the user's file by loading it from your tutorial folder. Just call `load` with a second parameter, `true`.

Although bad practice, it can be easiest to set data to the global scope.

*path/to/tutorial/data/file.js
```js
var data = 42;
```

*test.spec.js*
```
// load('data/file.js', true)
// load('user-file.js')

// tests here
```

Users can access global data by name in their file.

*user-file.js*
```js
var secret = data - 1;
```
